[executions] APQ support (#1474)
ExpediaGroup/graphql-kotlin: website/docs/server/automatic-persisted-queries/automatic-persisted-queries.md

---
id: automatic-persisted-queries
title: Automatic Persisted Queries (APQ)
---

> [APQ is technique created by Apollo](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/performance/apq/) to improve
> GraphQL network performance with zero build-time configuration by sending smaller [GraphQL HTTP requests](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-over-http/blob/main/spec/GraphQLOverHTTP.md),
> a smaller request payload reduces bandwidth utilization and speeds up GraphQL Client loading times.
> 
> A persisted query is a parsed and validated query document that is cached on a GraphQL Server, along with a unique identifier (SHA-256 hash), that way,
> Clients can send this identifier instead of his corresponding query which will drastically reduce the request size.
> 
> To persist a query, a GraphQL Server must first receive it from a Client, then, subsequent requests can just include the identifier
> instead of the query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[APQ is a technique created by Apollo](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/performance/apq/) to improve
GraphQL network performance with zero build-time configuration by sending smaller [GraphQL HTTP requests](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-over-http/blob/main/spec/GraphQLOverHTTP.md).
A smaller request payload reduces bandwidth utilization and speeds up GraphQL Client loading times.

A persisted query is a parsed and validated query document that is cached on a GraphQL Server, along with a unique identifier (SHA-256 hash).
This way clients can send this identifier instead of the corresponding query which will drastically reduce the request size.

To persist a query, a GraphQL Server must first receive it from a Client, then, subsequent requests can just include the identifier
instead of the query.
```

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram;
  Client->>GraphQL Kotlin Server: Sends SHA-256 hash of query to execute
  Note over GraphQL Kotlin Server: Fails to find persisted query
  GraphQL Kotlin Server->>Client: Responds with error
  Client->>GraphQL Kotlin Server: Sends both query AND SHA-256 hash
  Note over GraphQL Kotlin Server: Persists query and SHA-256 hash
  GraphQL Kotlin Server->>Client: Executes query and returns result
  Note over Client: Time passes
  Client->>GraphQL Kotlin Server: Sends SHA-256 hash of query to execute
  Note over GraphQL Kotlin Server: Finds persisted query previously parsed and validated
  GraphQL Kotlin Server->>Client: Executes query and returns result
  Note over Client: Client can opt-out from sending SHA-256 hash
  Client->>GraphQL Kotlin Server: Sends query without SHA-256
  Note over GraphQL Kotlin Server: Still persist parsed and validated query
  GraphQL Kotlin Server->>Client: Executes query and returns result
  Client->>GraphQL Kotlin Server: Sends query without SHA-256
  Note over GraphQL Kotlin Server: Finds parsed and validated query
```

## AutomaticPersistedQueriesProvider

> To support APQ we have created `AutomaticPersistedQueriesProvider` which is an implementation of
> the [graphql-java PreparsedDocumentProvider](https://github.com/graphql-java/graphql-java/blob/master/src/main/java/graphql/execution/preparsed/PreparsedDocumentProvider.java)
> which is the interface that allows caching for parsed and validated GraphQL Documents (AST).
> 
> The `AutomaticPersistedQueriesProvider` requires an implementation of `AutomaticPersistedQueriesCache` as a constructor argument,
> `AutomaticPersistedQueriesCache` is an interface that specifies the contract of how retrieving documents.
> 
> **Note:** `graphql-kotlin-automatic-persisted-queries` provides a default in-memory cache implementation of `AutomaticPersistedQueriesCache`
> called `DefaultAutomaticPersistedQueriesCache`, In order to take full advantage of Automatic Persisted Queries it's recommended
> to use a different cache mechanism like REDIS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To support APQ we have created `AutomaticPersistedQueriesProvider` which is an implementation of
the [graphql-java PreparsedDocumentProvider](https://github.com/graphql-java/graphql-java/blob/master/src/main/java/graphql/execution/preparsed/PreparsedDocumentProvider.java),
which is the interface that allows caching for parsed and validated GraphQL Documents (AST).

`AutomaticPersistedQueriesProvider` requires the implementation of `AutomaticPersistedQueriesCache` as a constructor argument.
`AutomaticPersistedQueriesCache` is an interface that specifies the contract of how to retrieve documents.

**Note:** `graphql-kotlin-automatic-persisted-queries` provides a default in-memory cache implementation of `AutomaticPersistedQueriesCache`
called `DefaultAutomaticPersistedQueriesCache`. In order to take full advantage of Automatic Persisted Queries, it's recommended
to use an external cache mechanism like Redis.
```
